---
layout: blank
title: North Music - Page 5
date: 2019-12-24 
---
{% include north.css %}
<center>( 5 )</center>
<br>
<hr>
<hr>

<center><big><em>Of</em>&nbsp;<smallc><spread> Sound</spread></smallc>.</big></center> 
<br>

<dcap3></dcap3>
MY design being to explain the nature of Musick it will not be improper to enquire first, concerning the cause of Sound; and here though I cannot hope to give full satisfaction, because our Senses want subtilty to discover the motions of the minute parts of the Air whereupon it depends, yet perhaps I may assign a possible cause for the producing of Sound, the knowledge whereof will give some ease to the wondring Philosopher; and if I have the good fortune to shew a probable cause, the Curious will acquiesce from any farther enquiry, which is all the benefit they can have by speculations of this nature.
<br>
&emsp;The _Phaenomena_ of _Sound_ which I think considerable are these, 1. It may be produced in the Torricellian vacuity. 2. It causes motion in solid bodies. 3. It is diminished by interposition of solid bodies, and 4. If the bodies interposed are very thick, its passage is wholly obstructed. 5. It seems to come to the Ear in strait lines when the object is so scituated that it cannot come in a straight line to the Ear. 6. When the air is not in motion its extent is _sphaerical_. 7. When there is a wind, the _sphaere_ is enlarged on that part to which the wind blows, and diminished on the contrary part. 8. That it arrives not to the Ear in an instant but considerably slower than sight. 9. That it comes as quick against the wind as with it, though not so loud nor so far.
<br>
&emsp;There are many other observable Appearances, and more will daily occurre to the Curious upon Experiments, but the consideration of these qualities of Sound and the visible actions that produce it, hath made me entertain the following Hypothesis.