---
layout: blank
title: North Music - Page 7
date: 2019-12-24 
---
{% include north.css %}
<center>( 7 )</center>
&emsp;I shall leave others to apply this Hypothesis to the afore mentioned _Phaenomena_ (which they may easily do) and proceed to the discourse of _Musick_, where I am in its due place to shew how this action that causes sound is performed by the several instruments of _Musick_.

<center><big><em>Of &nbsp;a</em>&nbsp;<smallc><spread>Tone</spread></smallc>.</big></center> 

<dcap2></dcap2>
A Tone is the repetition of Cracks or Pulses in equal spaces of time so quick that the interstices or intervals are not perceptible to sense.
<br>
&emsp;The more quick the Pulses are, the more acute the _Tone_ is. Where the intervals are not equal, nor in musical proportion, the sound is not in _tone_ but an irregular noise.
<br>
&emsp;The compass of _Musick_ extends from such _tones_ whose intervals are so great that the several Pulses are distinguishable by sense, to those whose interstices are so very small that they are not commensurate with any other.
<br>
&emsp;In which compass the several _tones_ are infinite in number as all space may be divided in _infinitum_. But the _tones_ useful in Musick are those within the scale, which are not very many, and they are placed in the scale as they have relation to one another.

<center><big><em>Of the Relation of</em>&nbsp;&nbsp;<smallc><spread>Tones</spread></smallc>&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>and the Union of mixt</em>&nbsp;&nbsp;<smallc><spread>Sounds</spread></smallc>.</big></center> 

<dcap2></dcap2>
WHen the Pulses of _tones_ are coincident one with the other, there is an Union of the _sounds_.
<br>
&emsp;For when any _Sound_ is made, solid bodies within the _sphaere_ of it are moved, and if the body moved stands upon a spring (as all instruments producing _tones_ do) it will vibrate by intervals according to the measure of the spring until the force be spent.
<br>
&emsp;Now if the moving force be repeated, as it must be where