---
layout: blank
title: North Music - Page 9
date: 2019-12-24 
---
{% include north.css %}
<center>( 9 )</center>
ing so frequent, and the distances of the intermediate pulses proportionable, the mixture is very pleasing, and is the principal Chord called the fifth.
<br>
&emsp;Where the Termes of coincidence are further off, as when they are but the fourth, fifth or sixth pulses of the Treble that are coincident with the third, fourth and fifth pulses of the Base, yet the mixture is pleasing, and produces Chords: which Chords are more or less perfect, according as they are more or less coincident.
<br>
&emsp;Coincidence upon every fourth pulse of the Treble is the fourth.
<br>
&emsp;Every fifth pulse is the third sharp.
<br>
&emsp;Every sixth pulse is the third flat.
<br>
&emsp;When the fifth pulse of the Treble goes with the third of the Base, it is a sixth sharp: the eighth pulse of the Treble going with the fifth of the Base makes a sixth flat.
<br>
&emsp;That these Chords have their pulses in such proportionable line is demonstrable by the division of the Monochord, which being stopt in ½ gives an Octave, in ⅓ gives a fifth, in ¼ gives a fourth, in ⅕ gives a third Sharp, in ⅙ gives a third Flat, ⅕ gives a sixth Sharp, ⅜ gives a sixth Flat: This is agreed by all that ever treated of _Musick_, therefore I shall speak no more of it.
<br>
&emsp;It may seem strange that a Coincidence in this manner should unite _Sounds_, and that the fifth and fourth pulses that are disagreeing should not hinder more, than the sixth coincident pulse could reconcile: and that a coincidence between the eighth pulse of the Treble with the fifth of the Base should make the _Sounds_ agreeable, notwithstanding the variance of those which are intermediate.
<br>
&emsp;But this will be very clear, when it is observed that the intermediate pulses do not at all hinder, for they are all placed in such manner, in relation to one another, that where any of them distract the pulses of the concording string on the one hand, there are others that by being just as much on the other hand, set them right again: they are in balance