---
layout: blank
title: North Music - Page 10
date: 2019-12-24 
---
{% include north.css %}
<center>( 10 )</center>
one against another, so that it is as if there were no intermediate pulse at all, as to any effect of hindring the Coincidence.
<br>
&emsp;And the intermediate pulses being at such symmetrical distances a new proportion arises from the mixture of them, which makes the joined _Sounds_ pleasing to the sense.
<br>
&emsp;Where the coincidences are more remote, and all the intermediate pulses disagreeing, as 7 to 6, 8 to 7, 9 to 8, 10 to 9, the by pulses are too many to be kept steddy, and the pulses on one hand prevail too far before those on the other hand come to set them right, so that the _Sounds_ will not maintain their coincidences, but produce jarring and discord.
<br>
&emsp;When _Sounds_ are in discord, the concussions caused by them are in opposition one to another; and the Organ of Sense cannot be affected by both together, but they will appear ragged and jarring, and extream noisome. Nay some _sounds_ will be so contrary to one another, & so hard a match, that they cannot sound both together, but each hindering the other will take turnes. Thus do they imitate the Drum in an Organ, by joyning two deep discording Notes, that rumble in that manner sounding by turns. And in tuning Organ-pipes it may be observed, that the Sounds of two Pipes whilst in discord will flutter, but when the discording Pipe is brought to the others _Tone_, the _Sounds_ will as it were jump into Tune, as if they had attracted one another, and afterwards one clear and entire _Sound_ will be produced.
<br>
&emsp;Upon this Relation of _Tones_ depends the Scale of _Musick_, of which I shall shew the Degrees, and the reason why they are so placed, when I come to speak of _Schismes_.
<br>
&emsp;Before I leave this Head I must observe, that Octaves not altering the manner of _Sound_, but giving a fulness in duple proportions, which are comprehended in the same time, it follows, that all Octaves are easily brought in mind, and are as it were included in any _Tone_.
<br>
&emsp;This being considered, it will appear, that there can be no other variety of coincidence within the compass of seven pulses that is not allowed in _Musick_, and produces some _Chord_: For, 