---
layout: blank
title: North Music - Page 18
date: 2019-12-24 
---
{% include north.css %}
<center>( 18 )</center>
chronous, and produce one single _Sound_, as if the parts that vibrate severally are half parts, seconds or thirds of the string: and how this may be caused, I will enquire.
<br>
&emsp;If a string _Pendulum_ be very long, and the weight at bottom be not sufficient to cause the whole string to divide the Air; at first the _Pendulum_ will be sustained by the resistance of the Air, and afterwards it will put the whole string into motion: but not that of a streight line, for the _Pendulum_ will return before the direct motion performed at the top.
<br>
&emsp;This will occasion thwarting of motions, which being balanced between the force at the bottom and the check at the top, the crossing point will settle in such a division of the string, that they will continue uniform till the force be spent.
<br>
&emsp;I imagine, that if a musical string be so struck, that the whole string is not removed out of its place to cause the greatest vibration in the middle, there must be a crossing of vibrations: for before the motion communicated to the farther end, the part of the string that was struck may have restored it self to its first place. This crossing of vibrations, if the string be true, will be upon equall parts, and produce an Octave fifth, or some other Chord.
<br>
&emsp;It is common experience, that a great string struck near the Bridge with a Bow where the Rosin takes but small hold, will whistle and break into chords above; which if it were struck by the thumb that removes it out of its place, would give the true _Tone_.
<br>
&emsp;The _Trumpet marine_ that sounds wholly upon such breaks, is a large and long monochord play'd on by a Bow near the end, which causes the string to break into shrill Notes. The removing the thumb that stops upon the string gives measure to these breaks, and consequently directs the _Tone_ to be produced. The jarr at the Bridge takes the same measure and makes the _Sound_ loud, in imitation of a _Trumpet_, which otherwise would be like a _Whistle_ or _Pipe_.