---
layout: blank
title: North Music - Page 19
date: 2019-12-24 
---
{% include north.css %}
<center>( 19 )</center>
&emsp;The touch of the Thumb less hinders the _Sound_ of the string when it is upon the point where the vibrations cross, than when it is in any other part: for we see when any great string has an entire vibration, such a touch would immediately extinguish the _Sound_. This makes the _Trumpet Marine_, with the Thumb placed upon it, take to such a Note, as that the division of vibrations shall lye just under the Thumb.
<br>
&emsp;Speaking of the counterfeit _Trumpet_, I must observe that the true one seems to give all its Notes by way of breaking, which causing the metal to jarr gives so loud a sound. I fancy the true gage of the Air included in a _Trumpet_, in comparison of its bore would fit an eight below the Note they call the Note of the _Trumpet_, because a fourth below it is so easily sounded, which is a fifth to the true _Tone_, in case it be placed eight Notes lower: As it easily divides into three to give a fifth, so it may well treble that division, and give a second to the _Trumpet_ Note. And for the rest of the Notes which a _Trumpet_ will easily produce, they are the third ♯, fourth, fifth and sixth sharp, which arise upon the most easie divisions of the monochord, and therefore most readily produced by breaking, when the strength of the blast and the action of the lips direct it. The _Trumpet_ not being able to answer a flat Key, the _Sackbut_ as I observed before is made in such manner that it may be lengthned to supply this defect, whereby it will give any Note at the pleasure of him that plays: but when he is to _Sound_ an eighth or fifth above, he never lengthens the Instrument, for without any remove of his hand, the Note easily breaks into those higher Chords.
<br>
&emsp;The _Trumpet_ is of the nature of _Pipes_, and therefore properly leads me to speak of the varying Notes upon _Pipes_, which is so regular, and so much in use, that the compass of the _Musick_ depends upon it.
<br>
&emsp;I have shewed that _Sound_ does cause a motion not only of solid bodies, but of the grosser parts of Air within the sphere of it.
<br>