---
layout: blank
title: North Music - Page 23
date: 2019-12-24 
---
{% include north.css %}
<center>( 23 )</center>
as well as by the Note it self: Hereby it appears that any Note may be the Key Note, as to the pitch: As to the species or sorts of Keys they are two, _viz._ Flat and Sharp.
<br>
&emsp;When a Tune begins with a Flat third it must continue so; for the third being a relative to the Key Note, is joyned with the memory of it, and become as it were part of it, and a third Sharp being discord to it would disjoynt the Tune, though it be a better chord to the Key Note; it being necessary that the Tune should proceed with regard to the preceding Notes: for the same reason a third Sharp when once taken into play must be continued.
<br>
&emsp;When the third is Flat or Sharp the sixth must be so likewise, else the third to the Key which is of principal regard and relation to the Key, and sometimes hath closes upon it, will have neither a fourth above, nor a fifth below in the Scale, but a false fifth, which could not set it off in that lustre it ought to have.
<br>
&emsp;There is no natural difference betwixt the Musick in one Key Note or another; accidental differences there are: for in some Keys the emphatical Notes lying high are more sprightly than in others. Upon some Instruments, by reason of holdings, or open strings the emphatical Notes are of a mellow and durable _Sound_, which gives advantage to the Key. Upon most Instruments the emphatical Notes are not in Tune, by reason of the Schismes of _Musick_, (whereof I am presently to speak) therefore such Keys are not in use, and when play'd upon yield but a harsh Tune. But these differences are but accidental, and relating to the advantages or imperfections of Instruments.
<br>
&emsp;I shall collect from what hath been said, That the _Musick_ of a single Tune consists in the succeeding Notes having a due relation to the preceding, and carrying their proper emphasis by length, loudness and repetition, with variety that may be agreeable to the hearer. This is called the formality of a single part, wherein _Musick_ is so copious, that it has afforded to every Age and Nation a several fashion, and to every _Musician_ a particular stile.