---
layout: blank
title: North Music - Page 28
date: 2019-12-24 
---
{% include north.css %}
<center>( 28 )</center>
Instrument serve those Keys to which otherwise it would not be in tune. _Organs_ and _Harpsechords_ that have no quarter Notes are tuned with allowances, so that there is but one perfect fifth in the compass of an Octave, the rest bear on the one hand or the other, and so are indifferently well in tune to all Keys, but exactly in tune to none.
<br>
&emsp;_Harpes_, _Lutes_, and _Lyra Viols_, that are tuned to a particular Key, will be well in tune without any regard to this.
<br>
&emsp;_Pipes_ may be helped by the strength of the blast, and fretted Instruments by a favourable stopping.
<br>
&emsp;The _Violin_ has a great advantage by not being confined to frets: but above all, the Voice is most excellent, because it is not any way confined, but carried by the ear to those degrees which make exact Harmony.

<center><big><em>Of</em> <smallc><spread>Music</spread></smallc> <em>consisting of several Parts in Consort.</em></big></center>

<dcap2></dcap2> 
_MUsick_ in Consort consists of _Harmony_, _Formality_ and _Conformity_.
<br>
&emsp;_Harmony_ is the gratefull sound produced by the joyning of several _Tones_ in Chord one to another.
<br>
&emsp;I shewed before, that _Tones_ in Chord one to another will joyn and give one entire sound, whereas discording _Tones_ will jar; and also that some Chords were more perfect than other, according as the coincidence of their pulses was more frequent: It will be proper here to say something concerning the several natures of the Chords in conjunction, and the qualities of conjunct sounds.
<br>
&emsp;In all conjunct sounds the Base is according to its name the foundation, and all the upper Chords are gratefull as they have relation to that, because it comprehends all the rest, and its pulses are according to Nature bigger and 